learned more about partitioning with parted and having to format with mkfs.ext4 etc (different command for each type)
and probably learned more before.
didnt log them so...



learned about PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules)
does password things.

learned it while configuring ly (a display manager/login manager)

PAM is a Linux library (libpam; part of glibc. deeply integrated into the system) which applications or services delegates the authentication process to by calling functions provided in the PAM library, which will execute *security modules based on the configurations in /etc/pam.d/.
*security modules: think as actions like "check if the password is 8 characters or more"
This means PAM provides a centralized (not spread out across the filesystem) way to control & audit every authentication process.
other than that, the existence of PAM means that applications can not arbitrarily implement their own authentication process and risk security. by having PAM, a dedicated authentication library, authentication across different services are as consistent as desired.

PAM's Four Core Functions:
1. Authentication (credential validation)
2. Password (password quality checks)
3. Account (checks account status, permissions, restrictions)
4. Session (manages user environment)

---not done
in /etc/pam.d is contained configuration files for a certain service. in these configs, we can declare what authentication steps will be made when that service requests an authentication.

Stack: list of things/authentications done
1st field: Defines which aspect of the core functions it is implementing
auth, password, account, session
2nd field: Defines behavior of the authentication upon different cases
required: if it fails, the final status of the PAM stack is failed but will still run the rest of the stack
requisite: if it fails the rest of the stack wont be run, and it will fail
optional: if it fails then just continue on. doesnt affect the final status(fail or success) use case, can be used to log
sufficient: if it fails, if the other required modules in that stack succeeded, final status is still a success. if theres a failed required, final status is failed.
3rd field: the module to execute (analogy: this is a function that receives the password as parameter, outputs based on parameter) that returns a success/fail
These modules are:
-pwquality (checks password quality)
-pwhistory (looks at the history to __)
-unix (standard auth)
-faillock (lock out an account)
-faildelay (fail upon certain time passed)
4th field: arguments
___

there are recommended configurations that are defined in DISA STIG and CIS Benchmarks

PAM 
+ you can @include [other_config].
